#summary the article describes why good python integration in QtCreator is useful.
#labels Featured

=Introduction =

Python support in QtCreator had been requested many times at Qt Interests mail list, some english blogs and a two of the most visited russian IT resources ([http://habrahabr.ru habrahabr.ru] and [http://linux.org.ru linux.org.ru]).

There were several attempts to implement Python support in QtCreator:

  # from PySide developers here https://github.com/PySide/QtCreator
  # another attempt here https://qt.gitorious.org/~renatofilho/pyside/renatofilhos-qt-creator
  # Simple IDE inspired by QtCreator and written at Python/PyQt4: [http://www.linux.org.ru/forum/development/5735975 LOR topic], [http://www.dixen.cz/neeric/1.png screenshot #1], [http://www.dixen.cz/neeric/3.png screenshot #2], [http://www.dixen.cz/neeric/4.png screenshot #3]. This project is abandoned now.

Also there is good python parser in KDevelop IDE (this parser used in attempts 1-2). It includes python 2.7 source code and may be incompatible with python3, Jython, IronPython and other implementations.

= Requested features =
Here are some quotes from the posts on the linux.org.ru forum:
[LOR_Requesrs]

= Possible use cases of python plugins in QtCreator =
  * Create hybrid applications written at both Python and C++ languages. Tags: boost::python, Shed Skin, embedding python/writing python modules.
  * Develop PyQt4 and PySide applications with good editor, integrated QtDesigner, integrated help system and debuggers.
  * Use python as utility language for writing tests, scripts, style checkers, converters and code generators
  * Create scripts useful at desktop Linux that installs python interpreter and a lot of modules by default.